well good afternoon folks how you doing
I'm James Higgins with mcmorran fmx
otherwise known as the voice I do all
the MC with the boys of the shows around
the province so if you haven't seen
extreme motorcycle cross before I'll
give you a little hint about what it's
all about these boys take off from a
launching ramp over here they launch
themselves 70 feet through the air land
on this ramp and do an enormous number
of tricks do you want to meet the boys
right here we've got 25 year-old Lance
mcmorran this sport is only 12 years old
ladies and gentlemen he's been doing it
for 11 of those years what got the end
of this thing ah pretty much going big
and showing off and Racing's and I can
never had endurance to win a race so I
thought I'd just show off for the crowd
and cheer and that that seemed to work
out because I was doing that right
around the time freestyle started so I I
got invited to do some of these things
and it went on from there well you
didn't jump straight into freestyle did
you didn't you do some motocross racing
before that yeah like I said I was
showing off race I raced I I raced in
road dirt bike since I was five pretty
much I'm 25 now and I still raced a
little bit you have to race almost at a
pro level to be to be able to hit these
ramps at the gaps we do well now hitting
these ramps of the gaps you do like I
say they're 70 feet apart you launch
yourselves what 40 45 feet in the air
have there ever been injuries uh yeah
I've spent I spent a good I probably
spent in one year good hundred hours an
emergency I've hurt my back 28 stitches
in my forehead a lot of serious
concussions yeah you know what I could
be here all day explaining it to hear
alot always a ladies and gentlemen this
is one of the most dangerous sports in
North America it's also one of the
fastest-growing right across country how
many writers are there there's probably
15 15 pros there's probably only about
four in Alberta and there's about ten in
bcn there's not a whole lot else in
Canada so that's amazing well folks
we'll be right back with having a shot
at give you a shot of what these boys do
for a living
you
we